These are my projects for the book "Elements of Computing Systems" or nand2tetris. These projects were done so that i could learn about computer architecture and how higher level languages compile to machine code. The essential idea of the course is to build a fully functional simple computer called Jack starting with just nand gates. To find my work look in the projects directory.  

-Projects 1-5 had me implement various logic gates and chips in hdl, each building upon previously implemented elements. For example the ALU implemented in Project 2 required    using Mux16 gates implemented in Project 1 which itself required Mux gates from project 1. This culminated into Project 5 where I implemented a functional CPU which was then combined with Memory and ROM to create the chip representing the Jack computer.

-Project 6 had me implement an assembler for the Hack assembly language. The assembler takes in an asm file, parses it and and converts each asm command into it's binary equivalent. It then writes these binary commands to an output file with a .Hack extension for the Hack computer to read.

-Project 7 and 8 had me implement a virtual machine translator. This takes in a file written in an intermiediary virtual machine language, parses it and then translate each command into the corrosponding assembly commands. It would then write the output to a new file with a .asm extension ready to be assembled by the assembler made in project 6.

-Project 10 and 11 had me implement a compiler for the simplified high level programming language Jack. This takes in a file written in the Jack programming language, parses it and converts the text into a queue of tokens. The tokens are then popped off one by one by the compilation engine and if they follow the Jack programming syntax they are compiled  to vm code. The compiler then outputs the vm code to a new .vm file ready to be translated by the vm translator created in project 7 and 8. Additionally the compiler creates an xml output that shows the parse tree structure of the compiled code, this made it much easier to troubleshoot.
